Whats the playbook for 2018? A bull and 
bear perspective; Raising PO to $220 
After a strong 2017, will 2018 be as attractive? 
Apple shares rallied 46% in 2017 vs SPX of 19%. In 2018, we remain bullish on potential 
for cash repatriation, lower tax rates, and the potential for positive estimate revisions 
heading into 2019 (ASP/Gross Margins/mix tailwinds). A smoother iPhone cycle (no 
boom-bust) should drive increased stability in earnings, commanding a higher multiple.  
We raise our PO to $220 on higher services mix offset by some shifts in iPhone timing.  
We view 2018 as a year that could witness the largest cash repatriation with Apple 
potentially repatriating $240bn.  Bulls focus on (1) Using cash for M&A, buybacks or 
dividend increases; (2) A smoother iPhone cycle with two years of unit and ASP growth; 
(3) Upside to gross margins as iPhone ASP, Services mix, commodity pricing are 
tailwinds; (4) Continued strong growth in Services; (5) A larger OLED (organic light-
emitting diode) phone in 2018 with rear 3-D sensing that broadens the product line 
further; (6) increased adoption of AR/VR driving Apples lead further; and (7) HomePod, 
increased content, innovation around autonomous and AI.  
Cycle peak is the crux of bear argument 
Bears expect pressure on shares driven by (1) Decelerating mix of iPhone X as higher 
ASP creates demand headwinds post initial launch uptake; (2) gains at the lower end of 
the portfolio create less mix-adjusted ASP uplift than prior assumptions; (3) Demand for 
iPhone X likely to roll over earlier relative to iPhone 6 cycle; (4) China demand for iPhone 
X likely weaker beyond initial ramp given higher ASP; (5) Significant positive revisions in 
the last 12 months reflect run-up in shares and there is higher risk to negative revisions 
as 2018 iPhone is likely incremental; (6) A potential flexible OLED phone from Samsung 
in 2018 can create share headwinds; and (7) potential backlash on iPhone slowdowns .   
PO moves to $220; cyclical risk offset by many positives 
Our PO of $220 (prior $180) is based on 16x (prior 15x) C19E EPS of $13.49 (vs prior 
C18E EPS of $11.91).  We take a longer-term look at earnings potential and move to a 
C19 based valuation. Ex cash, the stock trades at just 10x, which we view as an 
attractive valuation given optionality to enter new markets and a strong cash return 
Mrkt Val (mn) / Shares Out 
Net Dbt to Eqty (Sep-2017A) 
* For full definitions of iQmethod SM measures, see page 25. 
BofA Merrill Lynch does and seeks to do business with issuers covered in its research reports. 
As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that could 
affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single 
factor in making their investment decision. 
Refer to important disclosures on page 26 to 28. Analyst Certification on page 24. Price 
Objective Basis/Risk on page 24.  
Return on Capital Employed 
Return on Equity 
iQmethod SM  Quality of Earnings* 
Net Interest & Other Income 
Net Income from Cont Operations (GAAP) 
Change in Working Capital 
Other Adjustments, Net 
Other Current Assets 
Other Non-Current Assets 
Other Current Liabilities 
Other Non-Current Liabilities 
* For full definitions of iQmethod SM measures, see page 25. 
Apple Inc. (AAPL) designs, manufactures, and 
markets consumer electronics and computers, and 
has developed its own proprietary iOS and Mac OS 
X operating systems and related software 
platform/ecosystem. Revenues are principally 
derived from the iPhone line of smartphones, 
hardware sales of the Macintosh family of 
notebook and desktop computers, iPad tablets, and 
iPod portable digital music players. The company 
also realizes revenue from software, peripherals, 
digital media, and services. 
We rate Apple a Buy on potential upside from 1) 
Continued long-term opportunity in China, 2) 
potential share gains from the release of a lower-
end iPhone, 3) strength of the iPhone 8/X cycle, 4) 
optionality in cash balance, revenue sources like 
Apple Pay, Apple Watch, home/health kit, etc., that 
will take time to mature. 
 The playbook for 2018 
We view 2018 as a year that could witness the largest cash repatriation with Apple 
alone potentially repatriating $240bn.  Bulls are looking for: (1) Using cash for M&A, 
buybacks or dividend increases; (2) A smoother iPhone cycle with two years of unit and 
ASP increases; (3) Upside to gross margins as iPhone ASP, Services mix, commodity 
pricing provide tailwinds; (4) Continued strong growth in Services; (5) A larger OLED 
phone in 2018 with rear 3-D sensing that broadens the product line further; (6) An 
increased adoption of AR/VR driving Apples lead further; and (7) Introduction of 
HomePod, increased content, innovation around autonomous and AI.  
In our opinion, these will outweigh the bear case risks of: (1) Decelerating mix of iPhone 
X as higher ASP creates demand headwinds post initial launch uptake; (2) gains at the 
lower end of the portfolio (iPhone 7, 6S) create less mix-adjusted ASP uplift than prior 
assumptions; (3) Demand for iPhone X likely to roll over earlier relative to iPhone 6 cycle; 
(4) China demand for iPhone X likely weaker beyond initial ramp given ASP materially 
higher; (5) Significant positive revisions in the last 12 months reflect run up in shares 
and there is higher risk to negative revisions as 2018 iPhone likely incremental; (6) A 
potential flexible OLED phone from Samsung in 2018 can create share headwinds; and 
(7) potential backlash on iPhone slowdowns.  
Summary of estimate changes 
Figure 1 and Figure 2 show our unit estimate changes by year and quarter, respectively. 
Figure 1: BofAML unit, revenue and EPS estimate change (Before vs. After) 
Other rev, ex-Watch ($mn)
Our iPhone unit forecast for F18 reduces by modest 2mn units from 230mn to 228mn, 
and F19 units decline 1mn units from 256mn to 257mn.  The more near-term change is 
a stronger Dec quarter and a weaker Mar quarter.  For F1Q18 (Dec 2017 quarter) we 
increase our iPhone estimates to 77mn units (from prior 74mn), wherein our iPhone X 
forecast moves to 33mn from prior 30mn. A more significant change occurs in the Mar 
quarter (F2Q18) for which our total iPhone units decline 2mn overall (from 59mn to 
57mn).  However, within this, we reduce our iPhone X forecast by 10mn units (from 
35mn to 25mn) and increase our estimate for older iPhone models by 8mn (for a net 
decline of 2mn units). 
The change in iPhone mix causes our blended iPhone ASP estimates for the Dec/Mar 
quarters to move to $790/$791 from prior $779/$869. 
Figure 2: BofAML unit estimate changes by quarter and year 
Bull case explored further 
Apple has $253bn of cash outside the U.S., of which we view $236bn as un-trapped and 
available to be repatriated to the US.  Recall that as per the European Union ruling, 
Apple needs to keep 13bn (~$15.8bn @1.22 conversion rate) in an Escrow account 
until the litigation in Europe is resolved.  Approximately 70% of Apple's annual global 
earnings are foreign. Also, Apple has been provisioning for U.S. taxes on about 70% of 
its global earnings (at current tax rates), and has been declaring the rest, which is a 
portion of its foreign earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the US (on which US taxes 
are not provisioned). If instead a lower repatriation rate of 15.5% is applied on global 
earnings, Apple could substantially repatriate all of its offshore un-trapped cash 
($236bn) by paying the taxes already provisioned, which are sitting on its balance sheet 
as deferred tax liability ($36bn).  
In Figure 3, we show historical pre-tax earnings for Apple split into foreign pre-tax 
earnings and U.S. domestic pre-tax earnings (federal and state).  In F17, about 70% of 
Apples pre-tax earnings were foreign ($44.7bn out of total $64.1bn).  
Taxes that Apple provisions in any given year, and which do not actually get paid out, 
appear on Apples balance sheet as a deferred tax liability.  Figure 4 shows that, as of 
F17, the majority of the deferred tax liability on Apples balance sheet was due to 
unremitted earnings for foreign subsidiaries ($36.4bn out of $36.6bn, or about 99%). 
The new tax provision under the Trump administration lowers the repatriation tax rate 
from 35% to 15.5% for liquid earnings held in cash.  As Figure 4 shows, the $36.4bn of 
deferred tax liability on Apples balance sheet would have been accrued at the prior 35% 
rate and so corresponds to about $104bn of foreign earnings.  Apple also has not 
provisioned taxes for $128bn of foreign earnings, which it has identified so far as 
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S.  If a 15.5% repatriation rate is applied to this 
total foreign earnings of $233bn ($104bn on which taxes have already been provisioned, 
and $129bn on which taxes have not been provisioned), then Apples total bill for 
repatriating its cash comes to ~$36bn, which is the amount the company already has on 
its balance sheet as deferred tax liability,  
If the repatriation tax rate is reduced to 15.5% from the current 35%, then Apple 
should be able to repatriate substantially all of its foreign cash, without provisioning 
for additional taxes, by paying out the deferred tax liability already on its balance 
sheet.  After paying out the taxes, Apple would have $200mn of cash back on-shore 
in the U.S. (which it could potentially use for buybacks, dividends, or M&A). 
Figure 3: Apple  historical provision of income tax split into federal, state and foreign 
Provision for income tax
Reconciliation with 35% U.S. Statutory Fed Tax rate:
Total tax @35% Fed rate applied on GLOBAL pretax earnings
indefinitely invested earnings of foreign subsidiaries
state taxes, net of federal effect
Provision for income tax
       If the repatriation tax went to 15.5% (vs. 35%), substantially
       all of Apple's off-shore cash can be repatriated on taxes
(U.S. taxes NOT provisioned for)
Figure 4: Apple already has deferred tax liability on its balance sheet which would be used for cash repatriation 
Def tax liability  on Balance Sheet:
unremitted earnings of foreign subs ($mn)
Other ($mn)
Total Def tax liab on BS
increase in unremitted earnings of foreign subs
How much tax would Apple pay to repatriate its off-shore cash:
def tax on BS related to unremitted earnings of foreign subs ($mn)
tax rate at which accrued:
Associated Foreign earnings on which taxes accrued @35% rate:
Cummulative earnings indefinitely reinvested outside U.S. (U.S. taxes not provisioned)
Total foreign earnings on which repatriation tax of 15.5% applied:
Repatriation tax at 15.5%:
Excess def tax liability ($mn) on balance sheet if repatriation tax 15.5% vs. 35%:
Consensus C19 estimates still too low given ASP growth potential 
In Figure 5 we parse iPhone ASP growth, by calendar year, into two factors (1) mix and 
(2) new model price increase.  To see the impact of price increases, we keep mix fixed 
by assuming a 60%/40% mix of new/old phones per quarter. Also, as in years past, we 
assume Apple continues to lower the price of existing phones by $100 when new 
phones are released. As Figure 5 shows, even without any price increase for the new 
iPhones announced in C17/C18/C19, the blended iPhone ASP grows from year-to-year in 
C18 and C19 just from the impact of mix. So, even if there is no further price increase 
for the phones to be released in C18 (iPhone 8S/8S Plus), blended iPhone ASP in C19 is 
higher given the step-up from C17 will flow through to 2019. If Apple can indeed 
increase prices again in C18 (perhaps by offering a phone with an even larger viewable 
area), then that can drive C18 and C19 ASP even higher. A 2-year runway for ASPs is 
underappreciated, in our view.  
Figure 5 presents various scenarios to show what C18/C19 iPhone ASP could be if 
iPhone 8S is priced $50/$100/$150 higher than current IPhone 8 Plus.  It also shows the 
impact on C18/C19 ASP if iPhone 8S Plus is priced $50/$100/$150 higher than iPhone 
X.  We currently model iPhone blended ASP for C19 at $839, which from Figure 5, 
roughly corresponds to the scenario where iPhone 8S is priced $50 more than iPhone 8 
Plus and iPhone 8S Plus is priced $50 more than iPhone X.   
Stock correlated to gross profit dollar growth which remains positive 
Our analysis suggests that Apples stock price is highly correlated to growth in gross 
profit dollars.  In the prior down cycle (late 2012), revenues decelerated to reach low-
single digits by mid-2013; however, gross profit dollar growth turned significantly 
negative (given gross margins were also declining) and the company was losing share to 
Android. In F18 and F19 we model iPhone gross margins in the 39-40% range and 
overall company gross margins staying slightly below 39%.  The company continues to 
gain share versus Android.  Net-net we do not expect a correction as severe as the last 
one despite periods of slower growth of gross profit dollars, as long as the growth 
Figure 7: Longer-term correlation of Apple stock price to gross profit dollar growth 
Lower commodity costs, and higher ASP can help gross margin 
Smartphones (including iPhones) have been getting more powerful over the years and 
have increased the amount of memory (DRAM) and storage (NAND) that they use.   
Figure 8 shows how Spot and Contract prices for NAND have increased over the last 
Figure 8: NAND price  like DRAM, spot also higher than contract 
Figure 9 shows how Spot and Contract prices for DRAM have increased over the last 
Figure 9: DRAM price (8Gb DDR4)  Spot still higher than recently increased contract price 
As a case in point, the new iPhones released in 2017 (iPhone 8/8 Plus/X) start at 64GB 
storage (NAND) configurations, vs. prior generations which started at 32GB.  Some 
investors believe that Apple might introduce 512GB storage configurations in iPhones in 
2018 or 2019. While iPhones up to iPhone 8 have 2GB of memory (DRAM), iPhone 8 
Plus and iPhone X come with 3GB. 
The growth of Spot and Contract prices and the increased use of DRAM and NAND have 
certainly pressured Apples iPhone margins.  While NAND prices are expected to remain 
stable, or decline sometime in 2H18, DRAM prices are expected to remain higher for a 
longer time than NAND. 
As commodity prices re-normalize, Apples margins on the iPhone may correspondingly 
benefit, as we do not expect Apple to reduce prices of future generations of phones. 
Services can also drive revenue growth 
While iPhone remains the key driver for Apples revenue and gross profit for the next 
few years, longer-term investors should pay more attention to Services revenue, which 
the company expects to double 2016-2020E.  This includes both organic growth, as well 
as growth via acquisitions.  Apples services revenue includes revenue from App store, 
Apple Music, iTunes, Apple Pay, Apple Care, Licensing, iCloud, and other Services. 
We currently model Services revenue growing from $24bn in F16 to $50bn in F20E 
(Figure 10).  Services also carry a higher margin (we model ~50% gross margin on 
Services, compared to ~40% gross margin for iPhone). 
Figure 10: Projected growth in Apples services revenue  
"y/y growth in services revenue"
Some customers waiting for larger OLED phone in F19 
The iPhone X allows for a 5.8 OLED display edge-edge, given the shorter bezels. The 
display size is larger than prior generations of iPhones, which had max display size of 
5.5.  However, there is still a significant set of customers who would prefer larger 
Media reports have indicated the possibility of Apple launching a 6.5 OLED phone in 
2018.  This would make it one of the largest phones on the market and would be 
appealing to those Android users who have held out from joining the Apple ecosystem 
waiting for an even bigger phone.   
AR/VR remains a major focus and possible driver of App revenue 
When users compare iOS vs. Android ecosystems, the discussion necessarily centers on 
the number and types of Apps available on Apples App store vs. on Google Play.  No 
doubt the richness of the Apps available on iOS make iPhone and iPad the useful 
products they are, and have helped to integrate them into users lives.   
In June 2017, Apple reported that the App store had seen significant growth over the 
past 12 months, with overall downloads up 70%.  In addition, its global developer 
community had earned over $70bn since the App Store launched in 2008. The 
subscription business model is now available to developers across all 25 app categories 
and App Stores active paid subscriptions were up 58% y/y.  Customers enjoy 
subscriptions across a wide variety of services including Netflix, Hulu, Tastemade (a 
mobile-first cooking network that has its own App), and photo editing Apps like Over 
and Enlight.  Apple typically keeps (and reports) 30% of the total App Store revenue, 
while the remaining 70% is paid to developers.  Starting last year, Apple indicated that 
the revenue split would be 85%-15% (i.e., Apple would take a smaller cut) from those 
developers who have customers signing up for subscriptions longer than a year. This is 
an added incentive for developers to stick with the iOS ecosystem. 
Apps are used by customers in 155 countries.  Gaming and Entertainment are top-
grossing App categories. Super Mario Run was one of the App Stores biggest hits. 
Lifestyle Apps as well as Health and Fitness have experienced over 70% growth in the 
Figure 11: Gaming and Entertainment are top-grossing App categories. Super Mario Run was one of 
the App Stores biggest hits 
In F4Q17, the App Store set a new all-time record, and according to App Annie's latest 
report, generated nearly twice the revenue of Google Play. Apple reported seeing an 
increase in the frequency of customer visits, the amount of time they spend in the store 
and the number of apps they download. 
Augmented Reality (AR) is a focus for Apple and the launch of iOS 11 also made iOS the 
world's largest platform for augmented reality. There are over 1,000 Apps with AR 
features in Apples App Store, with developers creating new experiences in many 
category of apps aimed at consumers, students and business users alike. 
App Annie predicts that AR will become more integrated into a variety of Apps in 2018.  
Those Apps that were being developed in 2017 with AR features will come to market in 
2018.  Also, downloads of AR Apps showed a significant increase in C4Q17. 
Figure 12 shows the most popular Apps in the Apple App store for 2017. 
Figure 12: Top Apps of 2017 in Apple App Store 
Optionality afforded by large cash balance to enter new markets 
Figure 13 summarizes the opportunities for Apple to grow its revenue in traditional and 
new markets.  Based on Apples calendar 2016/2017 revenue in smartphones, tablets, 
Apple Watch and Macs (~186bn/~202bn in the respective years), there is an incremental 
consumer market sized $345bn/$338bn in which Apple can increase its share (the 
consumer market opportunity is, in fact, larger given a portion of Apples 
$186bn/$202bn revenue is from Enterprise). 
Moreover, looking at other areas of consumer spend, we estimate additional market 
opportunities sized ~$300bn (including the TV market) and ~$140bn (excluding the TV 
market).  This reinforces our opinion that Apple has ample opportunity to 
develop/modify and introduce new product categories in order to grow revenues 
another $100bn in the long term. 
Figure 13: Market opportunities (as yet untapped TAM) in traditional and new markets based on 2016 Apple sales.   
Even without offering an 
has over $100bn in new
scope to increase its share
of the traditional markets
scope to increase its share
of new markets
Bear case explored further 
iPhone X sales may be weaker in the march quarter 
Our checks from Asia suggest that production for the iPhone X picked up strongly in the 
December quarter and ended up close to 35mn units; consequently we are raising our Dec 
qtr estimates for the iPhone as seen in Figure 14.  However, the better-than-normal q/q 
expectation for March (F2Q18) appears aggressive at this point and we are trimming our 
expectations for iPhone X for the March and June quarters but raise lower-end SKUs. 
Figure 14: BofAML iPhone unit estimates (before and after) 
Blended iPhone ASP growth may be lower than prior expected 
As we lower our expectation for sales of iPhone X and increase units for the older 
models (lower ASP), our revised expectation for blended iPhone ASP in F18 and F19 is 
now lower (Figure 15); albeit, we still see significant ASP growth in F18 and F19, as 
compared to the levels of F16/F17, given the ASP increases that have happened with 
the new iPhones launched in F16 and F17 and those we expect in F18 and F19. 
Figure 15: BofAML iPhone blended ASP estimates (before and after) 
iPhone X cycle may not be as strong, but still super long  
As shown in Figure 16, the iPhone 8/8 Plus/X cycle may not be as strong as prior cycles; 
however, projected units still show good growth for F18 and F19. 
iPhone X lead times have reduced in China, Competition strong  
Figure 17 is our iPhone X availability tracker.  As we see, as of the end of December, 
iPhone X is in stock in China, which happens to be one of the largest markets for 
iPhones.  This compares to the 5-6 weeks of lead time at the start of iPhone X 
shipments. This implies that supply has improved enough to catch up with demand, 
which is somewhat surprising to us since it is so early in the cycle.   
Figure 17: iPhone X availability by country 
Beats and raises are diminishing as Street estimates have closed the gap  
Figure 18 shows Apples stock price trend vs. consensus earnings estimate revisions and 
compared to our (BofAML) estimate revisions for F18 EPS. 
Figure 18: Apple stock vs. positive earnings revisions for F18 
As seen in Figure 18 above, the Mar 17, Jun 17 and Sep 17 quarters resulted in 
significant positive estimate revisions for F18 earnings (as seen by the step function 
changes in revisions in those timeframes). The Dec 17 quarter, however, has resulted in 
almost no change, and given the risk of deceleration over the next two quarters, the 
likelihood of negative revisions is significantly increasing.  
Figure 19: Apple stock vs. positive earnings revisions for F19 
Figure 19 above shows a similar trend for estimate revisions for F19 earnings. 
Recent revelations that Apple had been throttling CPU speeds lower on older iPhones (6, 
6S, 7 and SE) in order to counter degrading battery performance created a public 
relations annoyance for the company.  Apple has acknowledged the throttling and is 
offering replacement batteries for older iPhones at a $50 discount ($29, versus prior 
$79).  The company also issued a statement clarifying that its intent was not to degrade 
user experience in order to drive customer upgrades.  Instead, it was trying to smooth 
peaks of CPU activity in order to prevent the iPhones from shutting down unexpectedly 
in cold weather or as the battery aged.  Users have reported CPU performance 
improvement once the battery is replaced. 
In an environment where consumers are looking at device specifications critically, and where 
lots of lower cost competitor products have similar functionality, changes such as these, behind 
the scenes, and without customer knowledge, can certainly cause users to be annoyed.  
F1Q18 represents a near-term peak for iPhone shipments by our model 
We model 77mn iPhone units for the Dec quarter (F1Q18), which is the highest quarterly 
iPhone shipment expected in F18.  Similarly, we model the next peak in F1Q19 (Dec 
2018 quarter) at a similar peak level of 78mn units.  In fact, we model the next peak 
after that to also be at a similar level of 78mn units in F1Q20 (Dec 2019 quarter). 
Figure 20: iPhone shipments by quarter 
Similar peaks in F1Q18, F1Q19 and F1Q20
Expect revenue growth deceleration after F18 
Figure 22 shows the y/y trend in Apples total revenue, as well as revenue from iPhone.  
We model strong revenue growth in F18 (+22% y/y and +28% y/y growth for total 
company and iPhone, respectively).  However, our current forecast calls for deceleration 
of revenue growth in F19 (+16% y/y, + 18% y/y for total company and iPhone 
